# Engelsk original

> Research › Engelsk original

There was a loud crash, and Anabel awoke with a start. She hadn't been sleeping heavily -- she rarely did these days, since she never could get quite used to sleeping on the stone floor -- so she had half registered what was going on already.
"Stupid barboyles," she thought and let out a sigh, half smiling to herself. "I'm almost thinking their help isn't worth the extra trouble they make." She then drifted back into her uneasy sleep, knowing breakfast would be ready when she finally decided to get up.

The sun had been shining for a couple of hours already when Anabel peeked out of the cave entrance, squinting against the bright light. Sure enough, there, on the crude table she had once crafted all by herself, her breakfast sat: A jug of fresh water accompanied by delicious fruits and vegetables, some of which she didn't know the name of -- simply because she hadn't come up with a name for them yet. The table was clean and tidy, something that could not be said about the ground around it. Peel was scattered everywhere along with discarded fruits and dirty knives, and at one corner she saw the cause of the big crash earlier: A pile of casseroles had fallen over, and lay exactly like it had fallen.
Anabel sighed again as she sat down at the table. The barboyles were creatures about two to three feet tall, looking a bit like monkeys, but stubbier and shorter limbed. They also had almost no neck at all, contributing even more to their stubby appearance. Their short fur came in all sorts of variations: Some were steel gray, others were white with large spots in various colors, and still others almost looked like they had draped themselves in giraffe skin. Anabel had named them 'barboyles' because they reminded her of some of the creatures she had seen decorating the outside of the cathedral back home.
"Home..." Anabel felt a heavy thought sneak up on her, but she dismissed it right away.
The barboyles were not very bright creatures. That is, they were very clever at what they did, but somehow they got so caught up in what they were doing that they forgot to look at the bigger picture. Like this breakfast table: The table itself was immaculately set, but all around it everything was a big mess.
Anabel stroked the edge of the table with her fingers. Her dad would be proud of her for making that table. If he was alive.
"Aaaaah!" Anabel beat herself in the head with a purplange -- a fruit that in concept was very much like an orange, if you disregarded the deep purple color and the sweet, pineapple-plum-like taste of its juice.
"Why can't I even be awake for FIVE MINUTES before these stupid thoughts come to haunt me?" Anabel shouted to herself and flung the purplange towards a group of young barboyles playing under some trees at the edge of the large forest that started a little to the left of the cave. Some of them chased after it and started to fight playfully over it.
She looked out over the bogs beneath her. Far in the distance, she saw -- as she knew she would, or else she wouldn't be able to neither see it nor make out what it was -- the sun gleaming on the rear end of the small Class III Interstellar Cruiser that had brought her family here about two years back. She also knew that the ship's name, "Anabel II", would be visible on the one of the two rear wings that was still sticking out of the swamp. She wiped a tear from her eye, brought forth by the memory of her father's christening of the ship on the day that they bought it. He was so proud and happy that day, and Anabel was so excited about finally getting to see the worlds she had been reading about and seen on IV.
Oh, she would get very familiar with strange places, alright. Especially this one: A small planet not far from the Crab Nebula. Class M, but no intelligent life. Well, unless you counted the barboyles, that is. Anabel wasn't quite sure in which category to put them, and thought about this as she watched one of them chase a runnana. These moving plants, the fruits of which were green and tasted something like carrots, could be very hard to catch, and this one was not inclined to go down in history as an exception. After chasing the runnana around in circles for a couple of minutes, the barboyle scared the plant over the edge of a cliff, jumped straight after it and managed to grab it in mid-air, but proceded to fall twenty feet, land on the runnana and squish it flat, promptly pass out and have the squished plant being stolen by a couple of fruit cats.
Anabel had to laugh a bit to herself. The barboyles were thick-skinned and equally thick-skulled creatures, so it probably would only get a mild headache from the fall. Their peculiar mix of adeptness and clumsiness always managed to cheer her up. Too bad they weren't much useful for conversation -- she could really use someone to talk to beside herself. The barboyles didn't speak, although they used simple sign language to communicate. Anabel had learned quite a few of the signs, and this, she was sure, had saved her from going completely bonkers in lack of social interaction.
She looked back at the group of young barboyles under the trees. They had stopped playing, and were gathered around a large bush. They were gesticulating wildly to each other, and even making the odd sound now and then, something very unusual for a barboyle to do.
"What's going on over there?" Anabel thought as she headed towards them.
