# Novel MS Format

> Research › Novel MS Format

Keith BlountYour manuscript shouldhave your addressand contact detailson the title page only.Your agent's address canbe included beneath if youhave one.600 words.
NOVEL STANDARD MANUSCRIPT FORMATby Keith Blount

Surname / TITLE / 1
CHAPTER ONEChapter Subtitle Goes HereStandard manuscript format is often required for novels so that work can easily be read by editors. It allows editors to estimate word count and determine roughly how many pages will be required to produce a book using the page size, style and font used by their house. This PDF file was generated using Scrivener's Export Draft feature, using Print > PDF. It was created using the Novel Standard Manuscript Format template.Manuscripts for full-length novels require a separate title page. The author's name and address, telephone number and e-mail address should be shown in the upper-left corner of the title page, single-spaced. The title of the story should appear in all-caps about half-way down the page. The author's name follows the title on the by-line as the author wants it to appear when published. A real name or pseudonym may be used and may include initials or actual given name or professional designation.

Surname / TITLE / 2All text should be double-spaced and left-justified with a ragged right margin. Paragraphs should be indented by about five spaces and not separated by an additional blank line. It used to be traditional to separate each sentence with two spaces, but in these days of word processors this is less of an issue.Top, bottom, left and right margins should all be approximately one inch, not allowing for the page header. Each page except for the title page should include a header comprising the author's real surname, the title of the work (or a keyword) in capitals, and the page number.#Scene breaks are indicated with the hash character. Do not simply add an extra line space as this can be missed by the typesetter. Indicate italics by underlining. In Scrivener, you can use italics and set them to be converted to underlines upon export by using "Convert italics to underline" in the Text Options pane of Export Draft.

Surname / TITLE / 3
CHAPTER TWOFurther InformationBegin each new chapter on a new page like this with the chapter number about a third of the way down the page. In Scrivener, you can set up the chapter number and title in a separate (folder) document with the "Preserve Formatting" checkbox ticked.Although it is often said that writers should not use the word-count features of their computers to determine the number of words in a manuscript, most publishers and editors will happily accept a word processor word count these days. In Scrivener, you can insert a word count of your manuscript by using Edit > Insert > Draft Word Count (for a manuscript, you may wish to have the word count rounded to the nearest 100, in which case select Edit > Insert > Draft Word Count > Rounded To Nearest 100--this feature is used on the title page of this manuscript, in fact). Note that the actual word count will not be inserted, but a tag that will be substituted for the word

Surname / TITLE / 4count upon export.In reality, the formatting of a manuscript is often only really crucial when submitting directly to a publisher--first time novelists will usually submit to an agent first, and agents are usually less picky about format and will point you in the right direction before submitting your work to a publisher.<<<<>>>>
